Partnership Agreement Example
THIS PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT is made this
the following individuals:
day of
_, 20_, by and between
Address:
City/State/ZIP:
Address:
City/State/ZIP:
1. Nature of Business. The partners listed above hereby agree that they shall be considered partners in business
for the following purpose:
2. Name. The partnership shall be conducted under the name of
at [STREET ADDRESS], [CITY, STATE, ZIP].
and shall maintain offices
3. Day-To-Day Operation. The partners shall provide their full-time services and best efforts on behalf of the
partnership. No partner shall receive a salary for services rendered to the partnership. Each partner shall have
equal rights to manage and control the partnership and its business. Should there be differences between the
partners concerning ordinary business matters, a decision shall be made by unanimous vote. It is understood that
the partners may elect one of the partners to conduct the day-to-day business of the partnership; however, no
partner shall be able to bind the partnership by act or contract to any liability exceeding $
without the
prior written consent of each partner.
4. Capital Contribution. The capital contribution of each partner to the partnership shall consist of the following
property, services, or cash which each partner agrees to contribute:
Name Of Partner
Capital
Contribution
Agreed-Upon Cash
% Share
The partnership shall maintain a capital account record for each partner; should any partner's capital account fall
below the agreed to amount, then that partner shall (1) have his share of partnership profits then due and payable
applied instead to his capital account; and (2) pay any deficiency to the partnership if his share of partnership
profits is not yet due and payable or, if it is, his share is insufficient to cancel the deficiency.
5. Profits and Losses. The profits and losses of the partnership shall be divided by the partners according to a
mutually agreeable schedule and at the end of each calendar year according to the proportions listed above.
years, unless the partners
6. Term/Termination. The term of this Agreement shall be for a period of
mutually agree in writing to a shorter period. Should the partnership be terminated by unanimous vote, the assets
and cash of the partnership shall be used to pay all creditors, with the remaining amounts to be distributed to the
partners according to their proportionate share.
7. Disputes. This Partnership Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Any disputes
arising between the partners as a result of this Agreement shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the
rules of the American Arbitration Association and judgment upon the award rendered may be entered in any court
having jurisdiction thereof.
8. Withdrawal/Death of Partner. In the event a partner withdraws or retires from the partnership for any reason,
including death, the remaining partners may continue to operate the partnership using the same name. A
withdrawing partner shall be obligated to give sixty (60) days' prior written notice of his/her intention to
withdraw or retire and shall be obligated to sell his/her interest in the partnership. No partner shall transfer interest
in the partnership to any other party without the written consent of the remaining partner(s). The remaining
partner(s) shall pay the withdrawing or retiring partner, or to the legal representative of the deceased or disabled
partner, the value of his interest in the partnership, or (a) the sum of his capital account, (b) any unpaid loans due
him, (c) his proportionate share of accrued net profits remaining undistributed in his capital account, and (d) his
interest in any prior agreed appreciation in the value of the partnership property over its book value. No value for
good will shall be included in determining the value of the partner's interest.
9. Non-Compete Agreement. A partner who retires or withdraws from the partnership shall not directly or
indirectly engage in a business which is or which would be competitive with the existing or then anticipated
business of the partnership for a period of
of this State where the partnership is
currently doing or planning to do business.
in those
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the partners have duly executed this Agreement on the day and year set forth
hereinabove.
Partner
Partner
